tens of thousands of people have fled
Northern Gaza and many still remain
after the Israeli military gave him 24
hours to leave the area before it
launches a major ground offensive they
were ordered to move South of the Wadi
Gaza as as Israeli troops prepare to
hunt down and Destroy Hamas which is
regarded as a terror organization by
many Western governments including the
UK around 1,00 people have died so far
in Israeli air strikes on Gaza according
to Palestinian officials limited raids
in Gaza have already taken place and
there are reports that the bodies of
some Israeli hostages have been
recovered the hostages were snatched a
Week Ago by Hamas militants in raids
which have left 1300 people dead our
reporter Nick Johnson has the latest
details fleeing for their lives those
living in the north of the Gaza Strip
heading
south 1.1 million people roughly the
same size as the entire population of
Birmingham were told by Israel they had
24 hours to leave their
homes it happened to our grandfathers
now it's happening to us Muhammad says
it's raising the ghosts of the
past the bombs still fall tearing
buildings and families
apart oh
I want my daddy this little girl
[Music]
cries Israel says it's already launched
some localized ground raids inside Gaza
while it readies its next move a warning
from prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu we are striking our enemies
with an unprecedented power our enemies
have just begun to pay the price
I can't divulge what comes next but I
can tell you this is just the
beginning the UN Secretary General urged
both sides to protect civilians even
Wars have rules International
humanitarian law and human rights law
must be respected and upheld civilians
must be protected and also never use the
shields it's exactly a week since Hamas
gunman Ram paged through southern Israel
families still coming to terms with the
lives
lost this memorial for Tom
godo killed while protecting his wife
and three children during the attack on
a
kibot at least 150 Israelis were
kidnapped families of the victims
leaning on each other for support
katia's son among those missing
thing we are very anxious our hope is
that our child comes back we cannot
think
otherwise our child has to come
home a deep sense of for boing the
ratcheting up of this crisis seems
inevitable Nick Johnson BBC
News well we're now joined by Lord Mark
Malik Brown former deputy Secretary
General of the UN and current president
of the open Society foundations thank
you for joining us we've been discussing
the proposal put forth by Russia to call
for a ceasefire what's your feeling on
this proposal do do you think there's
any chance that a ceasefire might be
implemented I mean it'd be wonderful if
there could be a ceasefire and you know
the Brazil Brazilians who chair the
security Council this month have also
got a much more balanced resolution
which begins with a condemnation of
Hamas for its attacks on Israeli
citizens and then goes on simly to call
for a ceasefire to allow proper
humanitarian access and support to
civilians at risk in Gaza and you know I
I would love to believe that the
security Council can can come together
around that but in fact there are a
pretty wide range of views at the moment
with some Western countri us
particularly you know certainly calling
for humanitarian restraint but also you
know feeling and their correct in law
that Israel has an absolute right to uh
you know strike back at Hamas which it
does um and by putting that first and
foremost it's inhibited its ability to
the US has inhibited its ability to also
demand a ceasefire and respect for the
rule of law and the and for humanitarian
law so you know the trouble is a lot of
Israel's friends are a little ambivalent
at Best in their messaging you know
recognizing Israel's right to
self-defense and then leaving very much
in second place uh respect for uh the
civilians at risk and and so it it's
tragically hard to see how we get
quickly enough to a point where both
sides pause hold back and try and allow
a little space not just for humanitarian
protection but for the beginnings of
diplomacy as well Lord Malik Brown then
what do the discussions that are going
on at un headquarters in New York tell
us about the the health the strength of
the United Nations in general is there
any prospect that the UN as a body can
really Institute peace between the
Israelis and the the
Palestinians well look I think the
Secretary General who you know has been
criticized quite a lot lately for a
fairly sort of weak performance at the
recent UN General Assembly when he sort
of acknowledged his organization was
broken has had actually a good first
week of this crisis he has an article in
today's New York Times which is very
balanced which uh calls for a suspension
of the violence and uh humanitarian
protection and acknowledges the
longstanding wrongs against both
communities against Israel Israelis and
against Palestinians and the need for
both uh to to have a political voice and
to arrive at a political solution uh to
their decades long uh
confrontation and but the security
Council as I say while I think it's a
happy accident that this month it's
chaired by Brazil a country which is
always trying to find peace and a m way
to any conflict it's been criticized we
trying to do that in the case of Ukraine
and Russia but I think that's exactly
the skill set we need in the chair of
the council at the moment but you know
so and and you know similarly the
humanitarian Chief at the UN has spoken
out strongly against the risk of the
risk the one million Palestinians who
are being pressed by Israel to move to
the south of the country the Red Cross
has come out strongly so you know there
are a lot of principled moral voices
speaking up but you know to the real
import of your question will it lead to
an early resolution of this I suspect
not this you know a terrible crime was
committed last weekend and I suspect
Israel will not be satisfied until it is
you know militarily
uh disarmed neutralized Hamas but what
Israel needs to remember and what the UN
needs to keep saying is there may be a
military solution to Hamas that is not a
military solution to the
Palestinians uh for the Palestinian
people there has to be a political
solution and that's been postponed for
decades and each time there's a crisis
like that this it seems to get kicked
further back into the long ground Lord
Mal Brown as as you're speaking I just
want to to bring in an alert that we've
just received um from AFP they're saying
that Saudi Arabia has paused talks on
the normalization of ties with Israel
can you reflect on that development
where does that leave Israel now that
those those talks that have been going
on for quite some time now fostered by
the United States with Saudi Arabia have
been
paused well I I think this would was
anticipated it would have been
impossible for Saudi Arabia to have
continued them at this time uh you know
it is in recent years been quite quiet
on the issue of Palestinian rights but
when uh the events of this week unfolded
it you know raised its voice much more
clearly in defense of uh the Palestinian
people and it would be just in terms of
uh the Optics and politics of the region
impossible to press on uh in any effort
to to to normalize relations with with
Israel at the very same time that Israel
was seen as
attacking Palestinian Arab civilians uh
in Gaza but I don't know whether in the
longer term I mean I think this is now
up to Israel whether it wants to close
that door forever which would be the
result of a which will happen I think if
it makes a long-term occupation or
long-term milit milary intervention uh
into Gaza or whether it recognizes the
need to contain its military action in
as Surgical and brief a form as possible
so that it can get this back on track
because for both Israel and Saudi Arabia
the stakes are high it would be a
reordering of of the Middle East in a
dramatic way and I think uh you know
there will be a desire to try once the
fighting is dies down to to try and
recover this negotiation okay really
good to hear your thoughts on the
Diplomatic front Lord Mark Malik Brown
former deputy Secretary General of the
UN and current president of the open
Society foundations Lord Malik Brown
reflecting there on the news that Saudi
Arabia has paused talks on normalization
of ties with Israel that information
coming to us from AFP and we'll bring
you more on that when we get